% Publishing CG Telco — 2020-10-21

![W3C Logo](https://www.w3.org/Icons/w3c_home)


# Publishing CG Telco — Minutes


{: .draft_notice}

**Date:** 2020-10-21

See also the [Agenda](https://www.w3.org/mid/A9651E34-77B9-4E9A-80FF-7C1A93085BAB@wwnorton.com) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2020/10/21-publishingcg-irc.txt)

## Attendees

**Present:** Mateus Teixeira, Ivan Herman, Tzviya Siegman, Zheng Xu (徐征), Avneesh Singh, Yu-Wei Chang (Yanni), Paul Gilius, Michalis Kalamaras, Alex Grover, Vladimir Charitonov, Charles LaPierre, Brady Duga, Bill Kasdorf, Naomi Kennedy, Phil Barker, Curney Bennett, Ralph Swick, Jessica Upmeier, Marisa DeMeglio, Laura Brady, Julian Calderazi, Marianne Gulstad, Damian Gibbs, Juan Corona, George Kerscher, Garth Conboy, Alice Wershing, Jessica Waßmuth, Naomi Kennedy, Hadrien Gardeur

**Regrets:** Dave Cramer

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Zheng Xu (徐征), Mateus Teixeira

**Scribe(s):** Zheng Xu (徐征), Ralph Swick

## Content:
- [Publishing CG Telco — Minutes](#publishing-cg-telco--minutes)
  - [Attendees](#attendees)
  - [Content:](#content)
    - [1. Opening remarks](#1-opening-remarks)
    - [2. Introductions](#2-introductions)
    - [3. Task Forces](#3-task-forces)

---


> *Zheng Xu (徐征):* feel free to jump back if got time dauwhe

### 1. Opening remarks

**Mateus Teixeira:** opening introduction  
… we are welcoming ideas from publisher or anyone else  
… which might not need to be on rec tracking  
… Any ideas can benefit of becoming wg we can also support  
… As a note, much of existing epu3 cg work is moved to epub3 wg  
… the work not in epub3 wg will be pointing to publishingcg  

**Ralph Swick:** warm welcome  
… feel free to raise hand on zoom or q+ in irc to ask questions  

> *Mateus Teixeira:* [https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)

**Mateus Teixeira:** please read through the code of conduction  
… if any questions please feel free to reach me and zheng  
… start round self-introduction  
… (skip each one’s interesting introduction here)  

### 2. Introductions

**Zheng Xu (徐征):** I work for Rakuten/Kobo  
… very excited to be joining this CG  

**Ivan Herman:** working in w3c also other wg  

**Garth Conboy:** working on epub since 99? also co-chairing audiobooks wg  

**Alex Grover:** working on ebook researching  

**George Kerscher:** with Daisy. Has been working with this area for ever. Focusing on education with epub  

**Avneesh Singh:** with Daisy. working on accessibility  

**Bill Kasdorf:** publishing tech consultant. working on epub from era of IDPF.  
… also recruiting forks for magazine and different area for publishing  

**Brady Duga:** with Google. Interested in doc about epub. working on reading system and interested in getting good content  

**Charles LaPierre:** from benetech. Focusing on a11y and get epub Global Certified Accessible (GCA) for a11y  
… and best practice  

**Courney Benett:** with scribd (sorry if I miss name)  
… working on magazine  
… especially a11y with magazine  

**Damian Gibbs:** look forward to help publishing on board international  

**Hadrien Gardeur:** with DeMarque (pls fix name…)  
… also have reading system  
… mostly on epub  

**Jessica Waßmuth:** work for German company bookwire  
… provide conversion service for publisher  

**Juan Corona:** system developer. Contributor of Readium  
… interesting in a11y  
… working on Legible (if I did not misspell)?  

**Julian Calderazi:** we develop ebooks and having fun  

**Laura Brady:** work in trade publishing in Canada.  
… interested in a11y  

**Marianne Gulstad:** provide ebook to danish publishers, retailers and distributors  
… interesting in a11y  
… also interested in epubcheck and everything about ebook  

**Marisa DeMeglio:** shocked Mateus reading name correctly  

> *Marisa DeMeglio:* [https://www.w3.org/community/sync-media-pub/](https://www.w3.org/community/sync-media-pub/)

**Marisa DeMeglio:** working as developer  

**Michalis Kalamaras:** working with tech company around epublishing.  

**Naomi Kennedy:** with pengium random house  
… fix ebooks in automated way  

**Paul Gilius:** working with Jassica and interested in ebook as production. Very interested in tech stuff  
… interested in discussing new ideas  

**Phil Barker:** interested in online courses/educations  
… metadata. Chairing in metadata group in…  

**Ralph Swick:** with w3c. Great to support web community. Look forward to work with pcg  
… will do whatever Ivan said  
… hope can help pcg  

**Tzviya Siegman:** Working with Wiley.  
… co-author of code conduct  
… this cg is full of friends pls feel free to reach out  

**carl:** With “” publish, focusing on education publishing in Penn  

### 3. Task Forces

**Mateus Teixeira:** move on to next item - task forces  
… over the past experience it became to be a good idea to have cg (tk) to work independently  
… The way work will be structured here is as a Task Force  
… beside the task force (tf) in agenda you can create new tf  
… we need you to have at least one use case  
… we will need to track progress of tf  
… tf will be self-driven  
… we can follow up with email after this meeting  

**George Kerscher:** the activity is may not towards standardization. But notes or report might be “published”, right?  

**Mateus Teixeira:** absolutely, note and tech report is one of way to “publish”  

**Ralph Swick:** cg is entitled to publish anything (maybe whitepaper as "Community Group Reports")  

**Mateus Teixeira:** integrate any old epub tf to here including documentation.  

**Tzviya Siegman:** also need to check with dave, wendy and Shinya about working with epub3 wg  

**Mateus Teixeira:** we can connect with wg offline. also about how to help contributing wg work  

> *Ivan Herman:* [https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs](https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs) is the repository for the EPUB WG work

> *Tzviya Siegman:* [https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs](https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs)

**Bill Kasdorf:** many ppl are interested in epub work but not aligned with epub 3 wg yet. They might be interested in cg. Also, some forks would be interested in not epub but web publishing or audiobook  
… both can be in scope of pcg  
… should there be a web publication tf?  

**Mateus Teixeira:** certainly  

> *Tzviya Siegman:* I invite you to look at [https://discourse.wicg.io/t/proposal-content-aggregation-technology/4941](https://discourse.wicg.io/t/proposal-content-aggregation-technology/4941)

**Mateus Teixeira:** next topic - a11y and document about epub  
… ask avneesh  

**Avneesh Singh:** a11y was already on topic of epub 3 cg  

> *Avneesh Singh:* [https://w3c.github.io/publ-a11y/UX-Guide-Metadata/principles/](https://w3c.github.io/publ-a11y/UX-Guide-Metadata/principles/)

**Avneesh Singh:** define metadata for publishing  
… have some documentation ready  

> *Avneesh Singh:* [http://www.a11ymetadata.org/the-specification/metadata-crosswalk/](http://www.a11ymetadata.org/the-specification/metadata-crosswalk/)

**Avneesh Singh:** also have some discussion about a11y metadata with onix  

> *Avneesh Singh:* [https://github.com/w3c/publ-a11y/issues](https://github.com/w3c/publ-a11y/issues)

**Avneesh Singh:** these things are about what we are doing now. Apart from these will be best practice for a11y.  

**George Kerscher:** will a11y tf have a regular call  

**Avneesh Singh:** we will decide in Nov  

> *Juan Corona:* Re: Other ideas? I'd like to mention: Annotations, locators, linking and JS (all can be related together, or not. we can disambiguate)

**George Kerscher:** how will ppl self organize for example sending email to pcg?  

**Avneesh Singh:** we tried to use prefix used in epub 3 cg before  
… we will discuss later  

**Mateus Teixeira:** encourage of using pcg ML the same way as epub3 cg before  

> *Mateus Teixeira:* [https://www.w3.org/community/publishingcg/](https://www.w3.org/community/publishingcg/)

> *Mateus Teixeira:* [https://github.com/w3c/publishingcg](https://github.com/w3c/publishingcg)

**Mateus Teixeira:** feel free to create issue in pcg repo and raise issue  
… will link a11y repo from pcg github  
… pcg will have regular meeting once per month to share status of each tf  
… zheng and I will follow up with epub doc tf  
… anyone has idea about form tf pls feel free to send email to ML  

**George Kerscher:** we always use the same zoom link for pcg meeting  

**Mateus Teixeira:** Thank you all  

---
